So now we know how to create a document in sanity but if we want to fetch something then how will we do it?
So while doing that we will improve our login system. So how?
We will clear all the things in our useEffect. So for now we will remove the if statements and other things.
For now we will leave it as user logged in.
And after that we will have to do try and catch exceptional handling.
So we will have to do try and catch exceptional handling.
So the email that is here in the storage we have to verify the value of that email.
does that email match with our Sanity's email
does it match with any document's email
what will we do by doing this
understand this yourself
if we check this
then we will get to know that actually
the user has logged in
no one has come by fake editing
inside the user object
ok, so what do we do now
to fetch it
we will write client
client
as soon as you write it will be imported
it is important to import client
wherever you will call Sanity
client.fetch
what will the fetch method do
it will fetch for you
it will fetch according to the query you will give
so what query do we give
we will put backticks
and here we will write star
star
then brackets
underscore type equal to
user
type equal to
user and end
user email
see we gave name after
user email so we are calling with
same name
type is document type
which document we are calling
user
now you will understand everything
equal equal
here we will put one thing
which is this
and here we will write
what
here we will write
log in
now we are doing
let's see
what we did here
we wrote a query here
what we wrote
star type equal to user
we said listen Sanity
that type
user type
in user document
if user email
is equal to
basically
this user logged in email
means
let's understand this
the document named user in Sanity
in that user name document
if any person's user email
is equal to user logged in
means this is set in local storage
is equal to that email
which is set in Sanity
when those two emails are equal
then from that all content
star means fetch all the content
so we are saying
from this user
from this document named user
the email which we have given
which email? this one
in this user object
in this user logged in object
whatever email is set in it
bring all the details of it
for example
let me explain it to you
so here we go to our
chrome
after going to chrome we see this
the document named user
in this we said in the document named user
if
it is equal to that which is set in local storage
what is our email in local storage?
our email is in local storage
basically
that is
tacky recon
the email of tacky recon
this email
if it is equal to any
of those email which exist in user
then it will fetch all the data
so what will it fetch? tacky recon
and user picture will fetch
hope you understood this
now we will go back to this code
we did this
and we went to our main.js
and we said
fetch the data
now the data is fetched
but now how will we know
what is in the data?
so now we will write dot then
dot then
and here user logged in dot email
dot email
sorry
we will not do this
dot email
so you are taking email from the object
that is in user logged in
and doing it equal to the user email
ok you are specifying
that you want the data of this email
so dot then
in dot then you will go
one parameter will go by res
res means result response
whatever you want to understand
we gave a parameter and in this response
we will save that response which will give sanity
if
we will say if
and we will say if
res means response
and end
response
ok let me turn off the capstock
if res and end
res dot
length
greater than zero
then
then do what
do nothing
or also set loading
to false message
i am telling you what we are doing
i will explain everything
else
else navigate
user to
the login
what we did
you understand
what we fetched
we said
fetch details of this email
from user document
if in response
something comes
something comes for example
in response
and its length is also greater than zero
means that object
for that email
we have data in sanity
let's assume we have two situations
either we have a particular email
can exist in sanity
and the other
it can't
because the user has either logged in or not
if logged in
it will also have an email in sanity
and if there is an email
then we said
do one thing
bring details of this email
if in sanity
the data of local storage email is found
user is verified
and if he got the data
then we won't do anything
but if in sanity
the data of that email is not found
which is saved in local storage
means the user has logged in falsely
then we will send it back in login
ok we did this
and here we did set loading to false
here we made a state
set loading
we will make it true for now
what does this loading state do
as soon as a user comes to the main page
you must have seen that as soon as a user comes to the main page
and he hasn't logged in
then he writes in the main page
for some time
then he gets redirected to login
but he gets a glimpse
what will the loading state do
we have set it here
loading will check
that everything is done
the user is able to see this
otherwise
the user is looking like this
so we have set the loading
as soon as he fetches the result
the loading will be running
so let me show you how this works
let's go to our browser
as soon as we go to browser
we will go to our application
after going to application
you can see
here i will go to
slash login
or i will log out from here
i will click on continue in google
so here you will see
a loading will be written
see this loading came
this loading is there
as long as the data is loading
as long as it is checking
as long as it is performing
it is showing the loading screen
suppose the user is logged out
and he is going directly to the main page
so as soon as the main page is going
use effect works
as long as the use effect is working
we have set the loading
so as long as
for now let's see
what error is coming
ok what error is coming
cannot read properties of email
ok
so what is happening here
he is not getting email
why he is not getting email
because the user is not logged in
there is no data in email
in the application
let me tell you
we have set the email check
this one
so first he will try to fetch
but if he does not get email
suppose the user is logged out
and then the user is trying to go to the main page
so first he will check
what is the email of the user
if he does not get then he will throw error
we do not want to throw error
so what we will do
we will navigate him to login
where in cache
any error comes to us
now let's go back to the page
ok
let me see
may be there is any other error
ok
we have done everything correctly
there should not be any error
if i am not ok
so we have done this error
that we have put it outside the try
so ok
ok now let's save it
ok
ok now it is working
now it is working
now suppose he goes to the main page
so see
he is seeing a loading screen
he will not see the page
ok
but if we were not setting the loading
then he would have seen the page
then he would have come to the login
so this is something like this
now as soon as you will do continuous login check
as soon as you will do continuous login check
then you will come inside
now here suppose
you are trying to cheat
from any user info object
suppose you have
deleted it completely
so it will not work like before
now
as soon as you will refresh it
you will be logged out
because you
because you have cleared
user info object there
so it will not work like before
so we have to do one thing
we will clear the email
now we have cleared the email
we have put some sforg email
what email we will put here
we will put
testadreadgmail.com
now if we refresh
then we are logged out
because now that email
does not match with sanity email
in sanity any testadreadgmail name is not there
so it has sent us in login
so this is
basically the check we implemented
using sanity
because it is something like this
so let us take a quick recap
what we did
first of all
while logging in
we created a document using sanity
we put everything in it
then we came to main page
we used use effect
after using use effect we said
add the local object
in local storage
and compare it with sanity email
if any object is found
then let user be in main page
and set loading fault
means page load is not done
but if any email is not found
of user
then navigate user to login
and if any error occurs
then navigate to login
now you would have understood
how it works